# finalProject
finalProject
Group Project Description

Your group has been tasked with creating a system (procedure or set of steps that may include novel computer programs or scripts created by the group) linking "off the shelf" technologies in such a way that handwritten encoded messages (encrypted possibly using a foreign language or "made up" alphabet as the plain text original message) can be digitized and processed by automated decryption techniques (using open source or inexpensive software) in order to decrypt them. The ideal goal of the project is for a group to demonstrate a working prototype of the entire “system” (which is a set of linked procedures) taking a handwritten encrypted message, digitizing it, and then using software to decrypt it.
This project has its roots in a real life scenario. The "Zodiac Killer" terrorized the Bay Area of Central California in the late 1960's and early 1970's. The killer (who was never fully identified or captured) wrote a series of handwritten letters to the media in an alphabet that included several symbols along with standard English characters. To this day, some of these letters have still not been decrypted or deciphered. Part of the problem in developing an automated “system” solution to decrypt the messages deals with the unique alphabet the killer utilized. This is not unlike the case where a handwritten message is in a foreign language. There are examples throughout history of specialized languages being used as a simple form of encryption. One example is the Navajo language that was used by the United States during World War II to protect communications from German decryption. A specialized or contrived alphabet would require additional procedures (such as the adding of characters to an alphabet set used by an optical character recognition program) prior to the digitization necessary in order to utilize software-based decryption strategies.
Main Focus of the Project:
Three major problems need to be addressed in the project:
How to interpret or encode a handwritten message that may be written in a foreign language or "made up" alphabet
How to digitize the handwritten message once step A is complete
How to take the digitized message rendered by step B and link it to a series of open source or inexpensive decryption algorithms (software) in order to decipher the message
This project involves natural language processing, data security, and the linking of various information technologies (such as optical character recognition and readily available decryption software).
The group may propose using any type of information technology that is readily available (COTS or Commercial Off the Shelf) that costs under $1000 (and utilize such software if a group member has access to such or a trial version of it) and link several of these together; but the total cost of the entire procedure proposed (including hardware and software) is not to exceed a theoretical $5000 (no software or hardware is to be purchased). The cost for each step or enabling technology in the proposed procedure must be put forth as part of the project's deliverables. A secondary goal of the overall project is to create a procedure that costs as close to $0 as possible (not counting free trial versions, the cost for a yearly license would be used in this final costing for a proposed solution utilizing various applications).
